---
layout: post
title: Diaspora
published: true
tags:
- diaspora
- facebook
- Thoughts
---

I don t think I m at all alone in saying that Diaspora was (and continues to be)
a huge disappointment. A team of NYU students and their project aimed at
decentralizing Facebook raise over $100,000 on [Kickstarter](http://kickstarter.com).
The only problem is that it wasn t as much a <em>project</em> as it was a bunch
few math nerds mistakenly getting really good timing. They got a huge amount of
press coverage (New York Times, Computerworld, Wired, Washington Post, etc), not
because their project was interesting, but because at the time there was a lot
of buzz around problems with Facebook s privacy settings. Newsmakers weren t
looking for _the_ answer, they were just looking for someone they could
highlight as a potential competitor.

Even though the papers weren t hedging bets on who could replace Facebook, these
guys were presented with a massive opportunity. They had the eyes they needed,
and enough funding to at least work for 6 months and develop their product.

On September 15th, the developers of Diaspora announced on their blog a
developer s release of the project, along with some screen shots and source
code. There was another post on September 27th, and nothing (nothing) since. The
code is disappointing, and I keep thinking about how much of a wasted
opportunity there was there. If you re _ever_ given an opportunity like
the one they were  do everything you need to do to own it.
